Instructions.md, before:

# Introduction

In this tutorial, you will learn how to integrate Salesforce with Azure Active Directory (Azure AD). The scenario outlined in this tutorial consists of:

1.	Creating a Salesforce developer account
2.	Adding the Salesforce app to your tenant from the Azure AD gallery
3.	Assigning users to the Salesforce application in Azure AD
4.	Configuring and testing user account provisioning
5.	Configuring Azure AD single sign-on
6.	Configure Salesforce for single sign-on
7.	Testing single sign-on

## Assumptions

•	An Azure AD tenant with an admin account enabled

•	Valid email account


# Integrate Salesforce with Azure Active Directory for Single sign-on

## Task 1: Create a Salesforce developers account

1.	[Sign up](https://developer.salesforce.com/signup) for a Salesforce developer instance using a valid email address (you can use the same email address for your username).
2.	Open a new tab and go to your email inbox to verify the account. After signing in for the first time, Salesforce may send an extra verification code to your email.
3.	Open a new tab and sign into the same Salesforce admin account. On the top right corner of the page, click the view profile icon, and then click **Settings**.
4.	On the left navigation pane, click **My Personal Information** to expand the related section, and then click **Reset My Security Token**.
5.	On the Reset Security Token page, click **Reset Security Token button**.
6.	Check the email inbox associated with this admin account. Look for an email from Salesforce.com that contains the new security token. Save the security token. You will need it later.
7.	Go back to the homepage by clicking on **home** at the top. On the left navigation pane, click **Company settings** to expand the related section, and then click **My Domain**.
8.	On My Domain, enter a domain name and check whether it’s available.
9.	Click on Register Domain. It can take few minutes to update its naming. You will receive an email when it’s done. The domain follows the pattern: *https://\<subdomain\>-dev-ed.my.salesforce.com*.


## Task 2: Add Salesforce from the gallery

10.	Using the Office 365 credentials provided in the Resource tab of this page, access the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com/). Then, on the left navigation panel, click **Azure Active Directory** icon.
11.	Click **Enterprise applications** from the menu to go to the Enterprise Applications - All Applications page. 
12.	Click the **New application** button at the top of the page.
13.	In the search box below the Add gallery section, type Salesforce and select it from the result panel (do not select the Sandbox version). Then click the **Add** button to add the application. It may take a few seconds to create your application. 

## Task 3: Assign a test user to the application

14.	In the menu on the left, click **Users and groups**.
15.	Click the **Add user** button. Then select **Users and groups** on Add Assignment dialog.
16.	On Users and groups dialog, select the test user from the Users list. Click the **Select** button. 
17.	On the **Select Role** dialog, select Chatter Free User. Click the **Select** button. 
18.	Click the **Assign** button on **Add Assignment** dialog.

## Task 4: Enable automatic user account provisioning

19.	In the menu on the left, click **Provisioning**.
20.	Set the Provisioning Mode to Automatic.
21.	Under the Admin Credentials section, provide the following configuration settings:	
	- In the **Admin Username**, type a Salesforce account name that has the System Administrator profile in Salesforce.com assigned.
	- In the **Admin Password**, type the password for this account.
	- In the **Secret Token**, paste the security token value you have saved previously. 
22. In the Azure portal, click Test Connection to ensure Azure AD can connect to your Salesforce app.
23.	Click Save. 
24.	Under the Mappings section, select **Synchronize Azure Active Directory Users to Salesforce**.
25.	In the Attribute Mappings section at the bottom of the dialog, click on Add New Mapping.
26.	On Edit Attribute dialog, perform the following actions
	- In the **Mapping type**, select Direct.
	- In the **Source attribute**, select userPrincipalName.
	- In the **Target attribute**, select FederationIdentifier.
27.	Click Ok.
28.	Click Save at the top of the Attribute Mapping section.
29.	Close the attribute mapping dalog to go back to the Provisioning configuration page. 
30.     Under the Settings section, set the provisioning status toggle to **ON**, to enable the Azure AD provisioning for Salesforce.
31. Click Save. 


## Task 5: Configure single sign-on for Azure AD

32.	In the Azure portal, on the Salesforce application integration page, click Single sign-on.
33.	On the Select a single sign-on method, select SAML to enable single sign-on.
34.	Click on **Try out our new experience** on top of the page to enable the new experience for configuring SAML based applications.
35.	In step 1 (Basic SAML configuration), click the pen to edit the Sign on URL and Identifier:
	- In the **Sign-on URL** textbox, type the value using the following pattern:
	*https://\<subdomain\>-dev-ed.my.salesforce.com*	
	- In the **Identifier** textbox, type the value using the following pattern:
	*https://\<subdomain\>-dev-ed.my.salesforce.com*
36. Click Save. After the configuration is successfully saved, close the page.
37.	In step 3 (SAML Signing Cerficiate), click on download Federation Metadata XML. Save this XML file on your computer, you will use it later in Salesforce.


## Task 6: Set up Salesforce for single sign-on

38.	Go back to Salesforce or open a new tab in your browser and log in to your [Salesforce administrator account](https://login.salesforce.com).
39.	Scroll down to the **SETTINGS** in the left navigation pane, click **Identity** to expand the related section. Then click Single Sign-On Settings. If you don't see this option, click on the Setup under settings icon on the top right corner of the page.
40.	On the Single **Sign-On Settings page**, click the **Edit** button.
41.	Select **SAML Enabled**, and then click Save.
42.	Click **New from Metadata File** to configure SAML single sign-on settings. 
43. Choose the Federation Metadata XML you have downloaded from Azure portal. Click **Create**.
44.	On the SAML Single Sign-On Setting Edit page, make the following configurations:
	- For the **Name**, type *SSO Ignite demo*.
	- In the **Entity Id**, type your Salesforce domain name using the following pattern: *https://\<subdomain\>-dev-ed.my.salesforce.com*.
	- As **SAML Identity Type**, choose: Assertion contains the Federation ID from the User object.
	- Under **Just-in-time User Provisioning**, check User provisioning enabled.  

45.	Finally, click Save to apply your SAML single sign-on settings.
46.	On the left navigation pane in Salesforce, click **Company Settings** to expand the related section, and then click **My Domain**.
47.	Scroll down to the **Authentication Configuration** section, and click the **Edit** button.
48.	In the Authentication Configuration section, Check the **SSO Ignite demo** as Authentication Service of your SAML SSO configuration, and then click Save.

## Task 7: Testing single sign-on

49.	In the Azure portal, on the Salesforce application integration page, click Single sign-on (step 5).
50.	On the Test single sign-on with Salesforce section, click Test.
51.	Click on Sign in as current user. 
52.	You will be redirected to the Salesforce sign-in page. Click on Log in using SSO Ignite demo. If you don’t see it, it can be located at the bottom of the page.

## Optional tasks

### Task 8: Create a conditional access policies for blocking all users to access Salesforce

53. In the Azure portal, on the Salesforce application integration page, click **Conditional Access**.
54. At the top of the blade, click on **New Policy**.
55. In the Name field enter: *Blocking all users to access Salesforce*.
56. Under Assignments, select **Users and Groups**. Then, select **Include - All Users**.
57. Click **done**.
58. Under Access Control, select **Grant**. Then, select **Block access**.
59. Click **Select**.
60. Under Enable policy, select **On**.
61. Click on **Create**, to create the policy.

### Task 9: Test conditional access policy

62. In the Azure portal, on the Salesforce application integration page, click Single sign-on.
63. On the Test single sign-on with Salesforce section, click Test.
64. Click on Sign in as current user. 
65. You will be redirected to the Salesforce sign-in page. Click on Log in using SSO Ignite demo. If you don’t see it, it can be located at the bottom of the page.

### Task 10: Disable conditional access policy
66. In the Azure portal, on the Salesforce application integration page, click **Conditional Access**.
67. Click on the *Blocking all users to access Salesforce*.
68. Under enable policy, select **Off.**
69. Click on **Save**.

### Task 11: Create a group to configure user self-service application assignment 

70. In the Azure portal, on the left navigation panel, click **Azure Active Directory** icon.
71. Click on Groups from the menu to go to the groups configuration page.
72. Click on **New group** to create a group.
73. On the group dialog, configure the following:
	- In the **Group type**, select Security.
	- In the **Group name**, type *Salesforce self-service*.
	- In the **Membership type**, select *Assigned*.

### Task 12: Configure user self-service application assignment

74. On the Azure portal, on the Salesforce application integration page, click Self-service.
75. On the Self-service page, configure the following:
	- In the **Allow users to request access to this application?** toggle, select Yes.
	- In the **To which group should assigned users be added?**, select the group *Salesforce self-service*. Users requesting access to this aplication will be added to this group.
	- Click on **Save**.
	
Once you complete Self-service application configuration, users can navigate to their [Application Access Panel](https://myapps.microsoft.com) and click the **Add** button to find the apps to which you have enabled Self-service access.

## Next steps

Get more information about single sign-on, provisioning and conditional access

- [Azure AD Application Management Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/manage-apps/)
- [Managing user account provisioning for enterprise apps in the Azure portal](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/manage-apps/configure-automatic-user-provisioning-portal)
- [Azure AD Conditional Access Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/conditional-access/)

Commit message:

Edge plus credentials
Adding text to say that they should use Edge instead of IE. Also, use the credentials provided

Instructions.md, after:

# Introduction

In this tutorial, you will learn how to integrate Salesforce with Azure Active Directory (Azure AD). The scenario outlined in this tutorial consists of:

1.	Creating a Salesforce developer account
2.	Adding the Salesforce app to your tenant from the Azure AD gallery
3.	Assigning users to the Salesforce application in Azure AD
4.	Configuring and testing user account provisioning
5.	Configuring Azure AD single sign-on
6.	Configure Salesforce for single sign-on
7.	Testing single sign-on

## Assumptions

•	An Azure AD tenant with an admin account enabled

•	Valid email account

- You're using Microsoft Edge for following the steps in Salesforce


# Integrate Salesforce with Azure Active Directory for Single sign-on

## Task 1: Create a Salesforce developers account

1.	[Sign up](https://developer.salesforce.com/signup) for a Salesforce developer instance using a valid email address (you can use the same email address for your username).
2.	Open a new tab and go to your email inbox to verify the account. After signing in for the first time, Salesforce may send an extra verification code to your email.
3.	Open a new tab and sign into the same Salesforce admin account. On the top right corner of the page, click the view profile icon, and then click **Settings**.
4.	On the left navigation pane, click **My Personal Information** to expand the related section, and then click **Reset My Security Token**.
5.	On the Reset Security Token page, click **Reset Security Token button**.
6.	Check the email inbox associated with this admin account. Look for an email from Salesforce.com that contains the new security token. Save the security token. You will need it later.
7.	Go back to the homepage by clicking on **home** at the top. On the left navigation pane, click **Company settings** to expand the related section, and then click **My Domain**.
8.	On My Domain, enter a domain name and check whether it’s available.
9.	Click on Register Domain. It can take few minutes to update its naming. You will receive an email when it’s done. The domain follows the pattern: *https://\<subdomain\>-dev-ed.my.salesforce.com*.


## Task 2: Add Salesforce from the gallery

10.	Using the Office 365 credentials provided in the **Resource tab** of this page (Instructions), access the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com/). **Don't use your own O365 credentials to access Azure portal**. Then, on the left navigation panel, click **Azure Active Directory** icon. 
11.	Click **Enterprise applications** from the menu to go to the Enterprise Applications - All Applications page. 
12.	Click the **New application** button at the top of the page.
13.	In the search box below the Add gallery section, type Salesforce and select it from the result panel (do not select the Sandbox version). Then click the **Add** button to add the application. It may take a few seconds to create your application. 

## Task 3: Assign a test user to the application

14.	In the menu on the left, click **Users and groups**.
15.	Click the **Add user** button. Then select **Users and groups** on Add Assignment dialog.
16.	On Users and groups dialog, select the test user from the Users list. Click the **Select** button. 
17.	On the **Select Role** dialog, select Chatter Free User. Click the **Select** button. 
18.	Click the **Assign** button on **Add Assignment** dialog.

## Task 4: Enable automatic user account provisioning

19.	In the menu on the left, click **Provisioning**.
20.	Set the Provisioning Mode to Automatic.
21.	Under the Admin Credentials section, provide the following configuration settings:	
	- In the **Admin Username**, type a Salesforce account name that has the System Administrator profile in Salesforce.com assigned.
	- In the **Admin Password**, type the password for this account.
	- In the **Secret Token**, paste the security token value you have saved previously. 
22. In the Azure portal, click Test Connection to ensure Azure AD can connect to your Salesforce app.
23.	Click Save. 
24.	Under the Mappings section, select **Synchronize Azure Active Directory Users to Salesforce**.
25.	In the Attribute Mappings section at the bottom of the dialog, click on Add New Mapping.
26.	On Edit Attribute dialog, perform the following actions
	- In the **Mapping type**, select Direct.
	- In the **Source attribute**, select userPrincipalName.
	- In the **Target attribute**, select FederationIdentifier.
27.	Click Ok.
28.	Click Save at the top of the Attribute Mapping section.
29.	Close the attribute mapping dalog to go back to the Provisioning configuration page. 
30.     Under the Settings section, set the provisioning status toggle to **ON**, to enable the Azure AD provisioning for Salesforce.
31. Click Save. 


## Task 5: Configure single sign-on for Azure AD

32.	In the Azure portal, on the Salesforce application integration page, click Single sign-on.
33.	On the Select a single sign-on method, select SAML to enable single sign-on.
34.	Click on **Try out our new experience** on top of the page to enable the new experience for configuring SAML based applications.
35.	In step 1 (Basic SAML configuration), click the pen to edit the Sign on URL and Identifier:
	- In the **Sign-on URL** textbox, type the value using the following pattern:
	*https://\<subdomain\>-dev-ed.my.salesforce.com*	
	- In the **Identifier** textbox, type the value using the following pattern:
	*https://\<subdomain\>-dev-ed.my.salesforce.com*
36. Click Save. After the configuration is successfully saved, close the page.
37.	In step 3 (SAML Signing Cerficiate), click on download Federation Metadata XML. Save this XML file on your computer, you will use it later in Salesforce.


## Task 6: Set up Salesforce for single sign-on

38.	Go back to Salesforce or open a new tab in your browser and log in to your [Salesforce administrator account](https://login.salesforce.com).
39.	Scroll down to the **SETTINGS** in the left navigation pane, click **Identity** to expand the related section. Then click Single Sign-On Settings. If you don't see this option, click on the Setup under settings icon on the top right corner of the page.
40.	On the Single **Sign-On Settings page**, click the **Edit** button.
41.	Select **SAML Enabled**, and then click Save.
42.	Click **New from Metadata File** to configure SAML single sign-on settings. 
43. Choose the Federation Metadata XML you have downloaded from Azure portal. Click **Create**.
44.	On the SAML Single Sign-On Setting Edit page, make the following configurations:
	- For the **Name**, type *SSO Ignite demo*.
	- In the **Entity Id**, type your Salesforce domain name using the following pattern: *https://\<subdomain\>-dev-ed.my.salesforce.com*.
	- As **SAML Identity Type**, choose: Assertion contains the Federation ID from the User object.
	- Under **Just-in-time User Provisioning**, check User provisioning enabled.  

45.	Finally, click Save to apply your SAML single sign-on settings.
46.	On the left navigation pane in Salesforce, click **Company Settings** to expand the related section, and then click **My Domain**.
47.	Scroll down to the **Authentication Configuration** section, and click the **Edit** button.
48.	In the Authentication Configuration section, Check the **SSO Ignite demo** as Authentication Service of your SAML SSO configuration, and then click Save.

## Task 7: Testing single sign-on

49.	In the Azure portal, on the Salesforce application integration page, click Single sign-on (step 5).
50.	On the Test single sign-on with Salesforce section, click Test.
51.	Click on Sign in as current user. 
52.	You will be redirected to the Salesforce sign-in page. Click on Log in using SSO Ignite demo. If you don’t see it, it can be located at the bottom of the page.

## Optional tasks

### Task 8: Create a conditional access policies for blocking all users to access Salesforce

53. In the Azure portal, on the Salesforce application integration page, click **Conditional Access**.
54. At the top of the blade, click on **New Policy**.
55. In the Name field enter: *Blocking all users to access Salesforce*.
56. Under Assignments, select **Users and Groups**. Then, select **Include - All Users**.
57. Click **done**.
58. Under Access Control, select **Grant**. Then, select **Block access**.
59. Click **Select**.
60. Under Enable policy, select **On**.
61. Click on **Create**, to create the policy.

### Task 9: Test conditional access policy

62. In the Azure portal, on the Salesforce application integration page, click Single sign-on.
63. On the Test single sign-on with Salesforce section, click Test.
64. Click on Sign in as current user. 
65. You will be redirected to the Salesforce sign-in page. Click on Log in using SSO Ignite demo. If you don’t see it, it can be located at the bottom of the page.

### Task 10: Disable conditional access policy
66. In the Azure portal, on the Salesforce application integration page, click **Conditional Access**.
67. Click on the *Blocking all users to access Salesforce*.
68. Under enable policy, select **Off.**
69. Click on **Save**.

### Task 11: Create a group to configure user self-service application assignment 

70. In the Azure portal, on the left navigation panel, click **Azure Active Directory** icon.
71. Click on Groups from the menu to go to the groups configuration page.
72. Click on **New group** to create a group.
73. On the group dialog, configure the following:
	- In the **Group type**, select Security.
	- In the **Group name**, type *Salesforce self-service*.
	- In the **Membership type**, select *Assigned*.

### Task 12: Configure user self-service application assignment

74. On the Azure portal, on the Salesforce application integration page, click Self-service.
75. On the Self-service page, configure the following:
	- In the **Allow users to request access to this application?** toggle, select Yes.
	- In the **To which group should assigned users be added?**, select the group *Salesforce self-service*. Users requesting access to this aplication will be added to this group.
	- Click on **Save**.
	
Once you complete Self-service application configuration, users can navigate to their [Application Access Panel](https://myapps.microsoft.com) and click the **Add** button to find the apps to which you have enabled Self-service access.

## Next steps

Get more information about single sign-on, provisioning and conditional access

- [Azure AD Application Management Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/manage-apps/)
- [Managing user account provisioning for enterprise apps in the Azure portal](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/manage-apps/configure-automatic-user-provisioning-portal)
- [Azure AD Conditional Access Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/conditional-access/)
